HAL Id: hal-00540603
https://hal.science/hal-00540603v1
Submitted on 28 Nov 2010
HAL is a multi-disciplinary open access archive
for the deposit and dissemination of scientific research documents, whether they are published or not.
The documents may come from teaching and research
institutions in France or abroad, or from public or private research centers.
L’archive ouverte pluridisciplinaire HAL, est destinée au dépôt et à la diffusion de documents scientifiques de niveau recherche, publiés ou non, émanant
des établissements d’enseignement et de recherche
français ou étrangers, des laboratoires publics ou
privés.
HAL Authorization
Performance Evaluation of the Labelled OBS Architecture
Thomas Legrand, Bernard Cousin, Nicolas Brochier
To cite this version:
Thomas Legrand, Bernard Cousin, Nicolas Brochier. Performance Evaluation of the Labelled OBS Architecture. Seventh International Conference on Wireless and Optical Communications Networks (WOCN 2010),
Sep 2010, Colombo, Sri Lanka. pp.1-5, ⟨10.1109/WOCN.2010.5587310⟩. ⟨hal-00540603⟩
Performance Evaluation of the Labelled OBS 
Architecture 
Thomas Legrand(1), Bernard Cousin(1) and Nicolas Brochier(2)
(1)University of Rennes 1, IRISA, 
Campus universitaire de Beaulieu, F-35042, Rennes, France 
(2)France Telecom, Orange Labs,
2 avenue Pierre-Marzin, F-22307, Lannion cedex, France 
Abstract- A comparison of three different Optical Burst 
Switching (OBS) architectures is made, in terms of performance 
criteria, control and hardware complexity, fairness, resource 
utilization, and burst loss probability. Regarding burst losses, we 
distinguish the losses due to burst contentions from those due to 
contentions of Burst Control Packets (BCP). The simulation 
results show that as a counterpart of an its additional hardware 
complexity, the labelled OBS (L-OBS) is an efficient OBS 
architecture compared to a Conventional OBS (C-OBS) as well 
as in comparison with Offset Time-Emulated OBS (E-OBS).
I. INTRODUCTION
The evolution of optical transport networks is driven by 
continuously increasing traffic demand and Internet 
applications. Optical Burst Switching (OBS) architectures are 
considered to be promising solutions for coping with these 
trends [1-2]. 
At the ingress node of OBS networks, the client data with 
the same egress node are aggregated and assembled into a 
large data unit called a ‘burst’. When the burst is assembled, 
the edge node builds a Burst Control Packet (BCP) that 
contains control information for routing operations along the 
transmission path. The BCP is then transmitted on a specific 
control wavelength and is sent prior to the associated burst 
with an appropriate Offset Time (OT). According to the 
management of OT, we define Conventional OBS (C-OBS) 
and Offset Time-Emulated OBS (E-OBS) [1]-[3]. C-OBS uses 
a variable OT whereas E-OBS uses a fixed OT. When a BCP 
arrives at a core node, it’s processed electronically by the 
control unit (CU) of the node which configures the switching 
matrix of the node before the burst arrival. Thus, the burst can 
be transmitted optically toward the next node of the 
forwarding path. At the destination node, the burst is 
converted in the electronic domain. The burst is then 
disassembled to recover the client data. 
More recently, we proposed an OBS architecture called the 
Labelled OBS (L-OBS) [4-5]. Contrary to the two previous 
OBS architectures, control information is carried by a label, 
and the label and its burst are sent successively and on the 
same wavelength. A particular gain of the L-OBS architecture 
is to reduce the control complexity without increasing the 
burst loss probability. 
Whatever the OBS architecture, a well-known drawback is 
burst losses due to burst contentions. A burst contention 
occurs at core node when at least two bursts require the same 
output port and the same wavelength at the same time. This 
problem has been largely studied in the literature. Hence, 
different mechanisms of burst contention resolution and 
scheduling algorithms have been developed in order to 
minimize these burst losses [6-10]. However, BCP losses also 
bring about burst losses. Thus, congestions of control units of 
nodes and BCP contentions increase the burst loss probability. 
Whereas the problem of congestion of the control unit is 
discussed in [11], to the best of our knowledge BCP 
contentions have never been studied. 
In this work, we compare C-OBS, E-OBS, and L-OBS 
concepts in terms of complexity, burst loss probability, 
fairness, and resource utilization. We also distinguish losses 
due to burst contentions from losses due to BCP contentions. 
The rest of this paper is organized as follows. Section II 
describes the operating principle of C-OBS, E-OBS, and LOBS networks, and discusses the control and hardware 
complexity. Section III presents the simulation environment 
and describes the reservation protocols and scheduling 
algorithms used by the simulations. Section IV compares COBS, E-OBS, and L-OBS networks in terms of burst loss 
probability, fairness, and resource utilization. Section V 
concludes the paper. 
II. OPERATING PRINCIPLE
We consider three different OBS architectures varying in 
the management of their signalling. The first one is the C-OBS 
architecture. It uses an out-of-band signalling with variable 
OT between the bursts and their BCP. The second one is the 
E-OBS architecture. It employs an out-of-band signalling with 
fixed OT. The last one is the L-OBS architecture, using an inband signalling. The following section describes in more detail 
these architectures. 
A. Conventional OBS (C-OBS) 
In C-OBS networks [1-2], the OT is set once at the ingress 
nodes. It must provide enough time for processing the control 
information of the BCP and for configuring the switching 
matrix at each core node along the transmission path before 
the burst arrival (Fig. 1(a)). Thus, the value of the OT is based
on the path length. After having sent the BCP, when the OT 
expires, the ingress node releases the burst that crosses the 
configured nodes all along the transmission path. Thus, the 
burst crosses the network while staying in the optical domain 
and without delay. 
As shown in Fig. 1(a), the time advance between the BCP 
and its burst decreases with the BCP processing time in every 
node along the burst path. Therefore, the ingress node must 
define a minimum OT (OTMin) so as to guarantee that bursts 
don’t overtake their BCP. This OTMin is a function of 
processing time (TProc), number of hops (NbHop) in the 
forwarding path, and switching time (TSW). 
ܱܶெ௜௡ ൌ ܶௌௐ ൅෍ܶ௉௥௢௖
ே௕ಹ೚೛
௜ୀଵ
(1) 
Moreover, the value of the OT must be updated at each path 
node in order to maintain an accurate knowledge of the time 
between the burst and its BCP. This management of OT 
increases the control complexity. 
From the hardware complexity point of view, the C-OBS 
node is the simplest of the three OBS nodes. It may consist 
solely of a CU and a switching matrix (Fig. 1(a)). According 
to a scheduling algorithm (see section III.A), CU reserves the 
resources for the burst transmission request carried by the 
incoming BCP and it configures the switching matrix at the 
burst arrival. In this OBS network, the time spent in the CU 
for processing control information can fluctuate. But, a fixed 
time processing (TProc) simplifies OT management and control 
complexity. In return, it introduces a possible BCP contention 
on the output control wavelengths. In the following, we 
consider fixed time processing because it’s required by the 
two other OBS networks. 
For C-OBS, the end-to-end delay transmission (TEnd-to-end) 
can be calculated as the summation of burst assembly time 
(TAss), OTMin and propagation delay along the path (TProp). So, 
it’s defined as 
ܶா௡ௗି௧௢ି௘௡ௗ ൌ ܶ஺௦௦ ൅ ܶ௉௥௢௣ ൅ ܱܶெ௜௡
ൌ ܶ஺௦௦ ൅ ܶ௉௥௢௣ ൅ ܶௌௐ ൅෍ܶ௉௥௢௖
ே௕ಹ೚೛
௜ୀଵ
(2) 
B. Offset Time Emulated OBS (E-OBS) 
In E-OBS architectures [1]-[3], a BCP is sent prior to its 
burst with an OT at least equal to the time necessary for 
configuring the switching matrix (TSW). When this OT expires, 
the burst is released by the ingress node. At each input port of 
the core nodes, a Fibre Delay Line (FDL) is inserted on the 
burst path so as to delay it during the processing of its BCP. 
As a result, this FDL compensating the processing time of the 
BCP enables to keep a fixed OT all along the forwarding path 
(Fig. 1(b)). 
The E-OBS node is more complex than the C-OBS node 
because of the introduction of one FDL for each node input. In 
addition, a strict control of the time spent by BCPs in the CU 
is necessary for dimensioning the input FDLs and to keep a 
fixed OT from link to link inside the network. The 
inconvenience of this fixed processing time is the possible 
contention between BCPs for access to the control 
wavelength. 
In comparison with the C-OBS network, the E-OBS 
network using a fixed OT reduces the control complexity both 
at BCP processing and OT management. Indeed, no OT 
management is necessary at the core nodes and at the ingress 
node, the setup of the OT value is independent of the 
forwarding path. A particular advantage of the fixed OT is that 
the utilization of source routing or hop-by-hop routing is easy 
to implement in E-OBS network [3], whereas in C-OBS 
networks, the hop-by-hop routing involves an additional 
control mechanism [12-13] in order to guarantee that the burst 
doesn’t overtake its BCP. Moreover, in the C-OBS network, 
the update of the network topology or even the update of a 
core node will lead to the update of OTMin values at all edge 
nodes of the network. In the E-OBS network, this effect is 
resolved by the use of a fixed OT. 
Finally, E-OBS end-to-end delay is equal to C-OBS end-toend delay (Fig. 1(a) and (b)). So, it’s defined by (2). 
C. Labelled OBS (L-OBS) 
In an L-OBS network [4-5], the burst is composed of a data 
section and a header section called a ‘label’. This label carries 
control information required for the routing operations along 
the forwarding path. In this network, the client data and the 
control information are sent together on the same wavelength. 
Fig. 1: Example of a burst transmission in C-OBS (a), E-OBS (b) and L-OBS 
(c). TSW is the Switching Time, TProc is the Processing Time, NbHop is the 
number of hops on the forwarding path and OTMin is the Minimum OT.
Burst
wavelength
CU
FDL LExt
TSW TProc
CU
FDL LExt
TSW TProc
CU
FDL
Control
wavelength
Burst
wavelength
CU
FDL
TSW TSW TProc TSW TSW TProc TSW
Ingress node Egress node
Control
wavelength
Burst
wavelength
TSW TProc TProc TProc
OTMin = NbHop*TProc +TSW
TSW TProc TProc
OTMin
TSW TProc
OTMin
Core node
CU
Core node
CU
(a)
(b)
(c)
It’s in-band signalling. Therefore, the optical label must be 
read and processed electronically at each node of the 
forwarding path while the burst is delayed by an input FDL 
(Fig. 1(c)). 
From the hardware complexity point of view, the L-OBS 
node is the most complex of the three types of OBS node. In 
addition to input FDLs, a Label Extractor (LExt) is necessary. 
Located before the input FDLs, this function extracts the 
control information carried by the optical label and converts it 
in the electronic domain (Fig. 3). Then, the electronic label is 
sent to the CU which processes it and configures the switch 
matrix according to the result of a scheduling algorithm. In an 
L-OBS network, the time spent between the arrival of a label 
at the CU and the end of the configuration of the switching 
matrix must be the same from one label to another in order to 
properly define the length of the input FDLs. 
The end-to-end delay in L-OBS is the longest. Indeed, 
unlike C-OBS and E-OBS networks, the processing time and 
the switching time have to be compensated at each hop (Fig. 
1(c)). So, the end-to-end delay is expressed as 
ܶா௡ௗି௧௢ି௘௡ௗ ൌ ܶ஺௦௦ ൅ ܶ௉௥௢௣ ൅ ෍ ሺܶ௉௥௢௖ ൅ ܶௌௐሻ
ே௕ಹ೚೛
௜ୀଵ
(3) 
Nevertheless, in the usual optical switching matrix, the 
switching time is below one µs (or a few ns for the fastest 
optical switching technologies [14]); this is very small in 
comparison with the propagation delay (1 ms for a 200 km 
link) and it remains short compared to the processing time 
(some µs [4-5]). Consequently, the end-to-end delay of L-OBS 
is close to those of C-OBS and E-OBS networks. 
In comparison with C-OBS and E-OBS, the L-OBS network 
reduces the control complexity. For C-OBS and E-OBS 
networks, in a meshed topology, synchronization of the BCP 
with the burst can be very difficult to ensure. Moreover, the 
burst time location is calculated from the BCP arrival time and 
its control information (OT and burst duration). So, a stringent 
synchronization of the clock of different nodes inside the 
network is required in order to accurately define the burst time 
location. Furthermore, for C-OBS and E-OBS, in case of a 
failure (hardware or software) on the forwarding path of 
BCPs, loss of synchronization would be unavoidable and lead 
to network operation instability. Finally, for C-OBS and EOBS, a failure on the control wavelength of a link (e.g., a 
failure either of the transmitter or receiver of the control 
wavelength) results in the failure on the totality of the link. 
These issues can be addressed by using labels, as in L-OBS 
networks. Indeed, all computations are performed locally at 
the node so the problems of synchronization in C-OBS and EOBS networks are resolved. Moreover, any wavelength may 
transmit the bursts and their control information carried by the 
label, thus a failure on one wavelength (e.g., a failure either of 
the transmitter or receiver of the wavelength) leads only to the 
loss of transmission capacity of this wavelength. Finally, 
similarly to the E-OBS network (see Section II.B), the L-OBS 
architecture resolves the problem of flexibility in terms of 
routing and update of network topology encountered in a COBS network. 
III. SIMULATION ENVIRONMENT
In our simulation scenario, we consider two network 
topologies. The NSFNET topology is a real topology often 
used in similar studies (e.g., in [3]). It is composed of 14 
nodes and 21 bidirectional links. The second topology is a 
regular topology. We selected this topology in order to limit 
the impact of the unbalanced load on the network 
performance. It’s a 36-node torus with 72 bidirectional links. 
We suppose that all network links have the same number of 
wavelengths W=32. For C-OBS and E-OBS, one wavelength 
of each link is a Control Wavelength (CW=1) which is 
dedicated to forwarding BCPs. The transmission bit rate of 
bursts and control packets (BCP and label) is 10 Gbps. In 
these topologies, we apply shortest path routing. 
The traffic is uniformly distributed between the nodes. Each 
node sends the same amount of traffic to any other node. The 
offered traffic by one edge node is expressed in Erlangs and is 
normalized to the transmission capacity of a link. In other 
words, one Erlangs corresponds to the amount of traffic that 
occupies one entire link. The bursts are generated according to 
an exponentially distributed arrival process and have an 
exponentially distributed length. The mean duration of bursts 
is 100 µs (i.e., 1 Mbit at 10 Gbps). Concerning control packet 
generation (BCP or label), we consider a fixed length of 100 
bits (i.e., 10 ns at 10 Gbps). 
We assume that each node is an edge and a core node. The 
core node can resolve burst contentions in the spectral domain. 
The switching and processing times are fixed respectively at 1 
µs and 10 µs. 
For most of the results presented in this paper, the 
parameters used are as explained above. Only the results of 
Fig. 4 are obtained with different parameters: these are 
discussed in Section IV.A. 
A. Reservation protocol and scheduling algorithm
In our simulation, we use either Just Enough Time (JET) or 
Horizon as reservation protocols [1-2]-[15-16]. Similarly, we 
use either Last Available Unscheduled Channel (LAUC) or 
Last Available Unscheduled Channel with Void Filling 
(LAUC-VF) as scheduling algorithms [6-8]. 
Both JET and Horizon use a delayed reservation technique. 
So, their resource reservations begin at the arrival time of the 
incoming bursts, and the duration of their reservations is equal 
to the length of bursts. The difference between these 
algorithms is that for each wavelength, Horizon memorizes the 
earliest time just after the end of the last reservation while JET 
memorizes all the reservation periods. So, JET enables the 
filling of gaps between the previous reservation periods. In 
counterpart, it’s more complex than Horizon. 
1,E-08
1,E-07
1,E-06
1,E-05
1,E-04
1,E-03
1,E-02
1,E-01
1,E+00
0 0,2 0,4 0,6 0,8 1 1,2
Offered load
Burst loss probability
C-OBS (NSFNET)
E-OBS (NSFNET)
L-OBS (NSFNET)
C-OBS (Torus)
E-OBS (Torus)
L-OBS (Torus)
Fig.2: Burst loss probability as function of offered load. C-OBS uses JET and 
LAUC-VF whereas E-OBS and L-OBS use Horizon and LAUC. 
LAUC is a delay-oriented scheduling algorithm. Therefore, 
when a new burst reservation request arrives, it chooses the 
wavelength providing the shortest delay on the burst 
transmission. When several wavelengths are possible, it 
selects the one that minimizes the gap generated between the 
previous reservation and the new burst reservation so as to 
increase the channel utilization. Conversely, if all wavelengths 
are unavailable then the incoming burst is lost. LAUC-VF is 
close to LAUC. The only difference is that LAUC-VF can fill 
the gaps that occur between the reservations. But, it’s also the 
most complex of the two algorithms. 
In C-OBS, due to OT variation, the arrival order of bursts 
isn’t always the same as the arrival order of their BCPs. 
Consequently, gap may occur between two reservations. In 
such case, LAUC-VF and JET appear as relevant algorithms 
for C-OBS network. On the other hand, in E-OBS and L-OBS 
networks, the time separating the burst from its control packet 
(label or BCP) is the same for all the bursts. So, the arrival 
order of bursts is the same as the arrival order of their control 
packets. Consequently, gap can’t be created between the burst 
reservations and thus, the void filling concept is not necessary. 
As a result, for C-OBS network, we perform JET and 
LAUC-VF whereas for E-OBS and L-OBS networks, we carry 
out Horizon and LAUC. 
IV. PERFORMANCE COMPARISON
In this section, we compare the performance of C-OBS, EOBS and L-OBS networks in terms of burst loss probability, 
fairness and network resource utilization.
A. Burst loss probability
In Fig. 2, we present the burst loss probability as function of 
offered load for C-OBS, E-OBS and L-OBS networks. The 
continuous lines are the simulation results obtained on the 
NSFNET topology whereas the dashed lines represent the 
results on the Torus topology. Whatever the offered load and 
whatever the topology, the L-OBS network has better 
performance than the E-OBS which is itself more efficient 
than the C-OBS. We recall that only C-OBS network performs 
LAUC-VF and JET which can fill the voids. Nevertheless, the 
OBS network has the worst performance. 
We present in the Fig. 3 the burst loss probability due to 
either burst contention (Fig. 3(a)) or BCP contention (Fig. 
3(b)). We can see that the burst losses due to BCP contentions 
aren’t negligible for C-OBS and E-OBS. As a matter of fact, 
BCP contentions are the main source of burst losses up to an 
offered load of 0.4. So, under this limit the burst loss 
probability observed in Fig. 2 for C-OBS and E-OBS is the 
result of BCP contentions. Moreover, we observe that this 
burst loss probability is the same for C-OBS and E-OBS. As 
discussed in sections II.A and II.B, it’s the use of a fixed 
processing time that leads to burst losses due to BCP 
contentions in C-OBS and E-OBS networks (see Fig. 3(b)). 
For an offered load greater than 0.4, the burst contentions 
become predominant for all the OBS architectures (Fig. 3(a)). 
However, the L-OBS is the most effective whatever the 
offered load and the network topology. On the other hand, the 
C-OBS is the least efficient. A fact justifying the poor 
performance of C-OBS is that the burst loss probability in COBS network is OT-dependent because of OT variation. This 
OT dependency is already well-known in the literature [17] 
and it leads the development of Quality of Service (QoS) 
mechanism [18]. In fact, a burst with a long OT has more 
chance to reserve an output wavelength than a burst with a 
short OT. As a consequence, the burst loss probability 
increases when the burst approaches its destination. These 
1,E-08
1,E-07
1,E-06
1,E-05
1,E-04
1,E-03
1,E-02
1,E-01
1,E+00
0 0,2 0,4 0,6 0,8 1 1,2
Offered load
Burst loss probability due to burst contention
C-OBS (NSFNET)
E-OBS (NSFNET)
L-OBS (NSFNET)
C-OBS (Torus)
E-OBS (Torus)
L-OBS (Torus)
(a) 
(b) 
1,E-08
1,E-07
1,E-06
1,E-05
1,E-04
1,E-03
1,E-02
1,E-01
1,E+00
0 0,2 0,4 0,6 0,8 1 1,2
Offered load
Burst loss probability due to BCP contention
C-OBS (NSFNET)
E-OBS (NSFNET)
C-OBS (Torus)
E-OBS (Torus)
Fig. 3: Burst loss probability due to either burst contention (a) or BCP 
contention (b) as a function of offered load for C-OBS, E-OBS and L-OBS. 
burst losses close to their destination lead to the waste of 
transmission resource reserved (see section IV.C) and the 
increasing of burst loss probability seen in the Fig. 3(a). 
In the case of C-OBS and E-OBS networks, at least one 
control wavelength is assigned to the forwarding of BCPs 
whereas the L-OBS network uses all wavelengths of the link 
for sending bursts. Consequently, L-OBS has a better 
utilization rate of network resources (see section IV.C) and it 
enhances the statistical wavelength multiplexing between the 
bursts. These effects justify the best performance of L-OBS 
networks regarding the burst loss probability due to burst 
contentions regardless of the offered load (Fig. 3(a)). 
In Fig. 4, we compare the impact of various parameters on 
the BCP contentions. It shows the burst loss probability due to 
BCP contention as a function of offered load with different 
simulation parameters. Here, only the results obtained with the 
C-OBS network are presented. In fact, as we showed in Fig. 
3(b), the results obtained with the E-OBS network would be 
close. For readability, we only present results on the NSFNET 
topology. In Fig. 4, we modify the number of wavelengths per 
link (W=16 or W=32), the average burst length (LB=1 Mbit, 
i.e., 100 µs at 10 Gbps, or LB=5 Mbit, i.e., 500 µs at 10 Gbps) 
and the transmission bit rate of BCPs (αBCP=10 Gbps, i.e., 10 
ns for 100 bits, or αBCP=622 Mbps, i.e., 160 ns for 100 bits). 
To exploit these results, we consider the results with the 
previous parameters (W=32, LB=1 Mbit and αBCP=10 Gbps) as 
the baseline. Compared with this baseline, we show that the 
burst loss probability is proportional to the number of 
wavelengths per link and on the contrary, is inversely 
proportional to both the length of bursts and the transmission 
bit rate of BCPs. As a result, the use of a low bit rate 
technology for BCP transmission in order to reduce the cost 
brings about a worsening of network performance. Similarly, 
the increasing of the number of wavelengths with the aim to 
raise the transport capacity degrades the network performance 
in terms of BCP contentions. 
B. Fairness
In this section, we focus on the fairness of bursts in terms of 
burst loss probability. We have already seen that in the C-OBS 
network, the burst losses depend on the OT (see section IV.A). 
But, we didn’t evaluate the fairness in E-OBS and L-OBS. To 
this end, Fig. 5 assesses the burst loss probability with respect 
to the number of remaining hops to reach the destination for 
C-OBS, E-OBS, and L-OBS architectures. In these results, we 
consider the two topologies with the same set of parameters 
presented in Section III. For each result, the offered load is 
0.65. 
In Fig. 5, we can see the poor fairness of a C-OBS network. 
Indeed, the bursts having the greatest number of remaining 
hops have more chance to reserve an output wavelength. 
Therefore, the bursts starting their trip may undergo much 
lower losses than the bursts having a last hop to reach their 
destination. 
As discussed in section III.A, in L-OBS and E-OBS, all the 
bursts arriving at the same time start their reservation of 
resources at the same time. Thus, they have the same chance 
to reserve an available output wavelength. The results of Fig. 
5 confirm this behaviour and prove that E-OBS and L-OBS 
networks address the problem of fairness of the C-OBS 
network. The slight variation observed for the NSFNET 
topology is due to unbalanced load. This assumption is 
validated by the results obtained for the regular torus topology 
which present a steadier burst loss probability. 
The difference of performance between the L-OBS and EOBS architectures is the result of BCP contentions and the 
reservation of a specific wavelength for the BCP forwarding. 
C. Resource utilization
Network resource utilization is an important metric from the 
operational point of view. To compare the performances of COBS, E-OBS, and L-OBS in resource utilization, we present 
this metric as a function of offered load (Fig. 6). Here, we 
define the network resource utilization as the network 
resources reserved by the bursts successfully delivered at their 
destination divided by the total network transmission capacity. 
The simulation parameters are identical to those used in 
section III. 
1,E-04
1,E-03
1,E-02
1,E-01
1,E+00
0123456
Number of remaining hops
Burst loss probability
C-OBS (NSFNET)
E-OBS (NSFNET)
L-OBS (NSFNET)
C-OBS (Torus)
E-OBS (Torus)
L-OBS (Torus)
Fig. 5: Burst loss probability as a function of number of remaining hops for COBS, E-OBS and L-OBS. The offered load is 0.65.
1,E-05
1,E-04
1,E-03
1,E-02
1,E-01
1,E+00
0 0,1 0,2 0,3 0,4 0,5 0,6 0,7 0,8 0,9
Offered load
Burst loss probability due to BCP contention
C-OBS (16,1,10)
C-OBS (32,1,10)
C-OBS (32,5,10)
C-OBS (32,1,622)
x16
x2
x5
Fig. 4: Impact of number of wavelengths, burst length and bit rate of BCP on 
the burst loss probability due to BCP contention in C-OBS. 
According to Fig. 6, the L-OBS network surpasses the two 
other OBS architectures and the C-OBS is the least efficient. 
Once more, the poor performance of C-OBS is explained by 
the OT variation. In fact, the C-OBS architecture wastes 
network resources in order to transmit bursts which will be 
dropped when they are close to their destination. Compared to 
an L-OBS network, an E-OBS network performs slightly 
worse. This is due to the use of a control wavelength and to 
BCP contentions, both of which increase the burst loss 
probability of the E-OBS network (Figs. 2 and 3). Moreover, 
in the regular torus topology, the difference of performance 
between the OBS networks is increased because the saturation 
effects due to the unbalanced load in the NSFNET topology 
are reduced. 
V. CONCLUSION
In this paper, the L-OBS network is the best OBS 
architecture in terms of burst loss probability and network 
resource utilization. In addition, we showed that the access 
unfairness to network resource of C-OBS (for bursts having 
different OT) disappears in E-OBS and L-OBS networks. 
When a fixed processing time is considered, BCP 
contentions have an impact on the burst loss. Furthermore, 
BCP contentions are proportional to the number of 
wavelengths and inversely proportional to both the length of 
bursts and the transmission bit rate of BCPs. 
In summary, the L-OBS architecture resolves the problems 
of control complexity and OT management which are inherent 
in C-OBS and E-OBS networks, in compensation for some 
additional hardware complexity. In addition, the L-OBS is the 
most efficient OBS architecture in terms of burst loss 
probability and resource utilization. 
REFERENCES
[1] C. Qiao and M. Yoo, “Optical burst switching (OBS)—a new paradigm 
for an Optical Internet,” Journal of High Speed Networks, vol. 8, no. 1, 
pp. 69-84, Mar. 1999.
[2] J. S. Turner, “Terabit burst switching,” Journal High Speed Network, 
vol. 8, no. 1, pp. 3-16, Mar. 1999.
[3] M. Klinkowski, D. Careglio, J. Solé-Pareta, and M. Marciniak, 
“Performance overview of the offset time emulated OBS network 
architecture,” Journal of Lightwave Technology, vol. 27, no. 14, pp. 
2751-2764, Jul. 2009.
[4] T. Legrand, H. Nakajima, P. Gavignet, and B. Cousin, “Labelled OBS 
test bed for contention resolution study,” in IEEE International 
Workshop on Optical Burst/Packet Switching (WOBS), Sep. 2008, UK. 
[5] A. Al Amin et al., “Development of an optical-burst switching node 
testbed and demonstration of multibit rate optical burst forwarding,” 
Journal of Lightwave Technology, vol. 27, no. 16, pp. 3466-3475, Aug. 
2009.
[6] Y. Xiong, M. Vandenhoute, and H. C. Cankaya, “Control architecture in 
optical burst-switched WDM networks,” IEEE Journal on Selected 
Areas in Communications, vol. 18, no. 10, pp. 1838-1851, Oct. 2000.
[7] J. Xu, C. Qiao, J. Li, and G. Xu, “Efficient channel scheduling in optical 
burst-switched networks,” in Proceedings IEEE INFOCOM 2003, vol. 
3, pp. 2268-2278, 2003.
[8] J. Xu, C. Qiao, J. Li, and G. Xu, “Efficient burst scheduling algorithms 
in optical burst-switched networks using geometric techniques” IEEE 
Journal on Selected Areas in Communications, vol. 22, no. 9, pp. 1796-
1811, Nov. 2004.
[9] F. Callegati, W. Cerroni, and G. Corazza, “Optimization of wavelength 
allocation in WDM optical buffers,” Optical Networks Magazine, pp. 
66-72, Nov./Dec. 2001
[10] C. M. Gauger, M. Köhn, and J. Scharf, “Comparison of contention 
resolution strategies in OBS network scenarios,” in 6th International 
Conference on Transparent Optical Networks, ICTON, Jul. 4-8, 2004.
[11] N. Barakat and T. E. Darcies, “The control-plane stability constraint in 
optical burst switching networks,” IEEE Communications Letters, vol. 
11, no. 3, pp. 267-269, Mar. 2007.
[12] C.-F. Hsu, T.-L. Liu, and N.-F Huang, “Performance analysis of 
deflection routing in optical burst-switched networks,” in Proceedings 
Infocom 2002, pp. 66-73, Jun. 2002.
[13] T. Coutelen, H. Elbiaze, and B. Jaumard, “An efficient adaptive offset 
mechanism to reduce burst losses in OBS networks,” in Proceedings 
IEEE GLOBECOM 2005, pp. 2052-2056, December 2005.
[14] S. J. Ben Yoo, “Optical packet and burst switching technologies for the 
future photonic internet,” Journal of Lightwave Technology, vol. 24, no. 
12, pp. 4468-4492, Dec. 2006.
[15] M. Yoo and C. Qiao, “Just-Enough-Time (JET): a high speed protocol 
for bursty traffic in optical networks,” in Proceedings of IEEE LEOS 
August 1997, pp. 26-27.
[16] M. A. Aydin, T. Atmaca, H. Zaim, O. C. Turna, and V. H. Nguyen, 
“Performance study of OBS reservation protocols,” AICT’08–Athens, 
Greece, 8–13 June 2008, pp. 4208-433.
[17] K. Dolzer and C. M. Gauger, “On burst assembly in optical burst 
switching—A preformance evaluation of Juste-Enough-Time,” in 
Proceedings, ITC 17, Salvador, Brazil, December 2001, pp. 149-160.
[18] M. Yoo and C. Qiao, “Optical burst switching for service differentiation 
in the next-generation optical internet,” IEEE Communications 
Magazine,vol. 39, no. 2, pp. 98-104, Feb. 2001.
0
0,1
0,2
0,3
0,4
0,5
0,6
0 0,2 0,4 0,6 0,8 1 1,2
Offered load
Network resource utilization
C-OBS (NSFNET)
E-OBS (NSFNET)
L-OBS (NSFNET)
C-OBS (Torus)
E-OBS (Torus)
L-OBS (Torus)
Fig. 6: Comparison of network resource utilization